Hello and welcome back to the course and deep learning today we're finally at step number four full
connection.
So what is this step all about.
Well in this step we're adding a whole artificial neural network to our convolution all neural network.
So to all of the things that we've done so far which are convolution pooling and flattening.
Now we're adding a whole new A and then on the back of that.
How intense is that.
That is just that is something that is definitely something.
And so here we've got the input layer.
We've got a fully connected land output there and by the way the fully connected layer in the artificial
neural net which we used to call them hidden layers and here we calling a fully connected there because
they are hidden layers but at the same time they're a more specific type of hidden layers they are fully
connected layer in artificial neural networks.
Hidden layers don't have to be fully connected whereas in can evolutionary neural networks we're going
to be using fully connected layers and that's why they're generally called fully connected layers.
And so basically that whole column or vector of outputs that we have after the flattening we're passing
it into the input learned here and we've got a very simplified example just for illustration purposes.
And what's the main purpose of the artificial neural network is is to combine our features into more
attributes that predict the classes even better.
So we already in our vector of outputs and the flattening of the flattened result from what we've really
done we have some features encoded in the numbers in that vector and they can really do probably a pretty
good job at predicting what's what class we're looking at whether it's a dog or a cat or whether it's
a tumor or not a tumor and so on.
But at the same time we know that we have this structure called artificial neural network which is designed
which which has a purpose of dealing with attributes and coming out or dealing with features and coming
up with new attributes and combining attributes together to even better predict things that we're trying
to predict and we know that from the previous part.
So why not leverage that.
And that's exactly what the planning here is.
So how about we pass on those values into an artificial neural network and let it even further optimize
everything that we're doing.
And so that's what we're going to be doing.
But let's look at a more realistic example because this one is a bit too simple.
So here we've got a better looking artificial neural network where we have five attributes on the inputs
than we have in the first hearing layer we have six neurons in the second year or in the second fully
connected layer we have eight neurons and then we have two outputs one for dog and one for Cat.
And so an important thing to talk of for us to talk about here is that why do we have two outputs.
We're kind of used to having only one output in our artificial neural networks.
Well one output is for kind of when you're predicting a numerical value when you predict when you're
running a regression type of problem but when you're doing classification you need an output per class
except for the exception is when you have just two classes like we have two classes here a dog and cat
and we could have just done one output and made it a binary output and said one is a dog and zeros a
cat.
And that would have worked totally fine and actually in fact you'll see had lunch do that in the Practical
Tutorials and that's how they'll be structured.
But at the same time if you have more than two categories for instance dogs cats and birds then you
have to have a neuron per every category and that's why we're going to practice with two categories
in this example so that we know what to expect if we ever have more than two categories.
And so it was going to be happening here.
So we've already done all the groundwork we've done the convolution we've done the pulling and the flattening
and now the information is gonna go through the artificial neural network.
So let's have a look at how that all happens there is information going through from the very start
from the moment when the image is processed and kind of a luke involved then pulled flattened and then
through the artificial neural network all four steps and then a prediction is made and we'll see how
this happens.
In a moment we'll be very very interesting.
But for now let's just say a prediction is made.
And for instance 80 percent that it's a dog.
But it turns out to be a cat and then an error is calculate a.
Well what we used to call a cost function in a artificial neural network and we use the means squared
error there or in common delusional neural networks.
It's called a lost function and we use a cross entropy function for that and we'll talk about cross
entropy and means squared errors in a separate tutorial and how all that happens.
But for now let's just say we have a lost type of function which tells us how well our network is performing
and we're trying to optimize optimize it or minimize that function to optimize our network.
So we.
The error is calculated and then it's back propagated through the network just like we had in the artificial
neural networks is back propagated and the some things are adjusted in the network to help optimize
the performance and the things that are just that are as usual the weights in the artificial neural
network parts of the the blue lines that you see here the synopses.
Then also another thing that is adjusted is the feature detectors.
So we know that we're looking for features but what if we're looking for the wrong features what if
this didn't work out because the features are incorrect and so the feature detectors those remember
those little matrices that we had that the three by three matrices they are adjusted so that maybe next
time it'll be better and let's see what happens type of thing.
And but of course it's all done with a lot of science in the background of a lot of math and it's all
done through a gradient gradient descent of back propagation.
So it's all it's all not just random perturbations it's actually very thought through how it's done.
But nevertheless the feature detectors are adjusted the weights are adjusted and this whole process
happens again and then again the errors back propagate and this keeps going on and on and on and that's
how our network is optimized that's how our network trains on the data.
So the important important thing here is that the data goes through the whole network from the very
start to the very end then the errors compared.
So the error is calculated and then is back propagate.
So same story as with artificial neural networks just a bit longer because of that hole for the first
three steps that we really had.
And now let's have a look at the interesting by the really interesting part how do these two classes
work because or how do these two output neurons work.
Because before we've always kind of had one output neuron what happens when we have two how does.
How does a situation of classification of images play out.
Well let's start with the top neuron first going to start with the dog.
How do we.
The main purpose what we need to do first is we need to understand what weights to assign to all of
these synopses that connect the dog so that we know which of the previous neurons are actually important
for the dog and let's see how that is done.
So let's say hypothetically we've got these numbers in our previous layer of previous fully connected
in the final fully connected layer.
And again these numbers can be absolutely anything they don't have to be that they there can be any
numbers but just for argument's sake we're going to agree that we are looking specifically at numbers
between 0 and 1.
So it's easier for us to argue these things and understand and one means that that neuron was very confident
that it found a certain feature and 0 is going to mean that that neuron didn't find a feature is looking
for so because at the end of the day these neurons are like anything else on this from on this left
side is just looking at features at an image.
This is already very very processed but still it's detecting a certain feature or a combination of features
on the image right before we in the convulse step.
We had kind of recognizable features in the pools that they're less recognizable then they become even
less recognizable visible in the flattened image and then they get combined and so on.
But nevertheless this we're talking about here certain features that our present image or their combination
so and one which has been passed and this is important has been passed to both the dog and the cat at
the same time to both the output neurons.
So one means that for us for our argument it means that this this neuron has is firing up its really
rapidly detecting that feature that you know might be an eyebrow it might be detecting this eyebrow
for again for simplicity's sake is it this eyebrow and communicate that to the dog neuron to the cartoon
neuron saying I can see my eyebrow I can see my eyebrow and then it's up to the dog and the cat neuron
to understand what that means for them right.
And so in this case which neurons are firing up these three neurons are firing up the eyebrow and that
say the nose is saying I can see I can see a big nose and I can see floppy years so it and it's saying
that to the dog and to the cat and then what the dog and then what happens is we know that this is a
dog.
So the dog neuron knows that the answer is it is actually a dog because at the end we are comparing
to the picture or to the label on the picture and when it knows the dog.
So basically the dog neuron is going to say Aha.
So I should be triggered in this case.
So these are my neurons they are telling this signal that they're sending to both to me to the dog and
to the cat is actually a indication for me that it is a dog.
And throughout these lots and lots and lots of iterations of this happens many times the dog will learn
that these neurons do indeed fire up when the feature belongs to a dog.
On the other hand the cat neuron will know that its not a cat and it will know that this feature is
firing up and this neuron is telling me it can see floppy years floppy ears sloppy ears.
But at the same time it's not a cat.
So basically to me that's a signal that I should ignore this neuron.
And the more that happens the more the cat neuron is going to ignore this neuron about the floppy ears
and so basically that that's how through lots and lots of iterations.
If this happens often so this is just one example.
But if this happens often maybe a one maybe a zero point eight zero point nine maybe sometimes it won't
fire.
But overall on average this neuron is lighting up very often when it is indeed a dog.
The dog neuron will start attributing higher importance to this neuron.
And so there we go that's that's how we're going to signify that we're going to say that these three
neurons through this it's a relative process with me and with many many many many samples and many many
epochs remember so sample is growing your data set an epoch is when you go through your whole dataset
again and again and again through lots and lots of iterations this dog neuron learned that this eyebrow
neuron and this big nose neuron and this floppy ear neuron they all seem to really contribute very well
to the classification of what it's looking for and which is a dog.
So that's how it works.
And again these years and nose and eyebrows those are very very approximate or like very far fetched
examples because by this stage in this whole convolution conventional neural network it is completely
unrecognizable what they're looking for but at the same time it is something in the features of dogs
or cats or whatever you classify.
And then so let's move on to next and now we're going to look at the cat neuron but these begin to remember
that these weights are you know they how we've sorted out the dogs so the dog is kind of like pretty
much ignoring all these other neurons One two three four or five.
But it's really paying attention to what these three neurons are saying.
Now what is the cat's listening to.
Well whenever it is actually a cat right this is this is an example of a situation when it's actually
a cat.
So you'll see that this these three neurons zero point nine zero point nine and one they're saying something
they're saying something to both the dog and the cat.
And this is again important remember so this output signal goes both ways it's the same right.
It's saying one to the dog's saying one to the cat but then it's up to the dog into the cat to decide
to whether to take into account that signal and learn from it or not.
And both the dog and the cat can see that this is a photo I should should've put a photo of a cat here.
But basically imagine a photo of a cat both a dog and a cat can see that this is actually a cat.
So basically the dog is like OK.
So these whiskers and these pointy triangle ears and this small size I guess or oh maybe these this
type you know how cats have these things in their eyes their eyes are like little they're not circles
their lines or something like cat eyes.
Basically these cat eyes they're definitely not working for me.
They're not helping me out predict because every time these neurons light up the prediction is not what
I'm looking for.
On the other hand the cat is like hmm that's interesting every time these this one lights up it's or
most of the time it lights up.
It matches my expectation it matches what I'm looking for.
Okay I'm gonna listen to this guy more than this one this one same thing every time it lights up or
most of the times it lights up.
I happen to get a good I happened to be rewarded for my prediction because I get it right.
It's a cat Okay.
So I'm going to listen to him more.
You know this one.
Useless to me because he's not actually you know like his.
He's not even lighting up it's a cat but it's He's not lighting up.
So the opposite is happening.
And this one as well.
It's a cat but he's not lighting up so I'm not gonna listen to him but this one when he.
When.
What is this the eyes the cat eyes light up.
We can see.
I can see that it's a cat.
It matches most of the time so I'm gonna learn from that and I'm going to listen to these three guys
more often than not.
And so basically the cat is listening to these three and it's ignoring the other five and that is how
these final neurons learn which neurons in the final fully connected lair to listen to.
So the output neurons learn which of the fully which of the final fully connected neurons to listen
to and that's how they understand.
Basically that's how the features are propagated through the network and conveyed to the output.
And so even though these features of course don't have that much meaning to them like floppy ears or
whiskers at the same time they do have some distinctive.
They are a distinctive feature of that specific class and that's how the network is trained because
we also during remember during the back propagation process we also adjust the feature detectors.
So if a feature is useless to the output it's going to is going to probably be disregarded because this
doesn't happen until one or two to is this happens through thousands and thousands of iterations.
So with time a future that is useless to the network is going to be disregarded and replaced with future
is useful.
And so at the end of the day in this final layer of neurons you are likely to have lots of features
or combinations of features from the image that are indeed representative or descriptive of dogs and
cats and so then once your network is trained up then this is how it's applied.
So this is the next step like we've already trained up our network will this happen.
This is what happens when the this network is applied.
So let's say we pass on an image of a dog.
The values are propagated through a network.
We get certain values.
And so this time the dog and the cat neurons don't know they don't have the image of the dog here.
They don't know that it's a dog or a cat.
They have no idea what it is but they have learned to listen to what is being shown here right.
They have learned to listen to dog ear and listens to these three neurons the cat neuron listens to
these three.
And so the dog neuron looks at one two three and says aha.
These are pretty high.
So my probability is gonna be high that it's a dog the cat neuron looks at these three and says okay
these.
This one is pretty high but these are pretty low.
Interesting.
So my probability is gonna be zero point zero five.
And and then and that's and that's where you get your prediction.
So then your first choice for this neural network is dog.
Second choice is Cat.
And that's pretty much it.
So the answer is dog and same thing happens when you pass an image of a cat.
You get new values and you can see that even though this one's high these ones are low.
And for the cat this one's high.
This one's high and this one's a bit low so the probability here might not be as great as previously.
But still you can see that it's a cat of seventy nine percent.
And so therefore the neural network is going to vote that it's a cat.
And so basically all the neural network is going to conclude that it's a cat.
Voting is a term that is used for these guys.
So these neurons in the final fully connected layer they get to vote and these are their votes.
And again we are just for argument's sake putting values between 0 and 1 here.
These could be any values but they get to vote and then these weights are the importance of their votes.
So this is these these purple weights are how the dog neuron views their votes.
How much importance is it assigns to these neurons and to those votes.
And this is how much importance the cat's neuron assigns to these votes are the votes of these neurons.
And so these neurons vote the dog and the cats based on their learned weights.
They decide who to listen to and then they make their predictions and then hold neural network concludes
that this is in this case a cat and then that's and then that's your conclusion.
And that's how you get images like this where you have a cheetah and then you have a cheetah class you
like a high high probability.
So this is you know the probability that the network has predicted and these are lost but these still
exist because there's still kind of like a small chance the other neurons are also listening to their
voters and they're saying oh maybe it's actually a leopard and a bullet train.
Very very probable I hear a scissors.
You know this one one but hand glass was very close second and in frame past stethoscope because you
could see like these guys this this neuron the scissors neuron the output surfaces as neuron listened
to its voters and it had the predominant mode overall but then the hand Glass had a good outcome as
well.
So there we go that's how the full connection works and how this is all how this all plays out together.
I hope you enjoyed today's tutorial.
We're going to summarize all of this in the summary as well and I'll see you next time.
Until then enjoy deep learning.